@node gnutls-cli-debug Invocation
@heading Invoking gnutls-cli-debug
@pindex gnutls-cli-debug

TLS debug client. It sets up multiple TLS connections to 
a server and queries its capabilities. It was created to assist in debugging 
GnuTLS, but it might be useful to extract a TLS server's capabilities.
It connects to a TLS server, performs tests and print the server's 
capabilities. If called with the `-V' parameter more checks will be performed.
Can be used to check for servers with special needs or bugs.

@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug usage}
@subheading gnutls-cli-debug help/usage (@option{-?})
@cindex gnutls-cli-debug help

The text printed is the same whether selected with the @code{help} option
(@option{--help}) or the @code{more-help} option (@option{--more-help}).  @code{more-help} will print
the usage text by passing it through a pager program.
@code{more-help} is disabled on platforms without a working
@code{fork(2)} function.  The @code{PAGER} environment variable is
used to select the program, defaulting to @file{more}.  Both will exit
with a status code of 0.

@exampleindent 0
@example
gnutls-cli-debug - GnuTLS debug client
Usage:  gnutls-cli-debug [ -<flag> [<val>] | --<name>[@{=| @}<val>] ]... [hostname]

None:

   -d, --debug=num            Enable debugging
				- it must be in the range:
				  0 to 9999
   -V, --verbose              More verbose output
   -p, --port=num             The port to connect to
				- it must be in the range:
				  0 to 65536
       --app-proto            an alias for the 'starttls-proto' option
       --starttls-proto=str   The application protocol to be used to obtain the server's certificate (https, ftp, smtp, imap, ldap, xmpp, lmtp, pop3, nntp, sieve, postgres)

Version, usage and configuration options:

   -v, --version[=arg]        output version information and exit
   -h, --help                 display extended usage information and exit
   -!, --more-help            extended usage information passed thru pager

Options are specified by doubled hyphens and their name or by a single
hyphen and the flag character.
Operands and options may be intermixed.  They will be reordered.

TLS debug client. It sets up multiple TLS connections to 
a server and queries its capabilities. It was created to assist in debugging 
GnuTLS, but it might be useful to extract a TLS server's capabilities.
It connects to a TLS server, performs tests and print the server's 
capabilities. If called with the `-V' parameter more checks will be performed.
Can be used to check for servers with special needs or bugs.

@end example
@exampleindent 4

@subheading debug option (-d).
@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug debug}

This is the ``enable debugging'' option.
This option takes a ArgumentType.NUMBER argument.
Specifies the debug level.
@subheading app-proto option.
@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug app-proto}

This is an alias for the @code{starttls-proto} option,
@pxref{gnutls-cli-debug starttls-proto, the starttls-proto option documentation}.

@subheading starttls-proto option.
@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug starttls-proto}

This is the ``the application protocol to be used to obtain the server's certificate (https, ftp, smtp, imap, ldap, xmpp, lmtp, pop3, nntp, sieve, postgres)'' option.
This option takes a ArgumentType.STRING argument.
Specify the application layer protocol for STARTTLS. If the protocol is supported, gnutls-cli will proceed to the TLS negotiation.
@subheading version option (-v).
@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug version}

This is the ``output version information and exit'' option.
This option takes a ArgumentType.KEYWORD argument.
Output version of program and exit.  The default mode is `v', a simple
version.  The `c' mode will print copyright information and `n' will
print the full copyright notice.
@subheading help option (-h).
@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug help}

This is the ``display extended usage information and exit'' option.
Display usage information and exit.
@subheading more-help option (-!).
@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug more-help}

This is the ``extended usage information passed thru pager'' option.
Pass the extended usage information through a pager.
@anchor{gnutls-cli-debug exit status}
@subheading gnutls-cli-debug exit status

One of the following exit values will be returned:
@table @samp
@item 0 (EXIT_SUCCESS)
Successful program execution.
@item 1 (EXIT_FAILURE)
The operation failed or the command syntax was not valid.
@end table
